docs/03-composer-integration.md, before:

# Integration with a local composer

You will need dev nginx and a local composer.

Follow the instructions in flexible-content/readme/03-running.md to get your local composer up.

It should be accessible at `https://composer.local.dev-gutools.co.uk/`.

Run a local typerighter service (see instructions for [running locally](./01-running-locally.md)).

Edit /etc/gu/flexible-composerbackend.properties and set 
`typerighter.url=http://localhost:9000`

## Turning on typerighter and proving it works

"reStart" composer.

 * Create an article and edit it. 
 * Press shift-F12 to bring up the feature switch menu.
 * Turn on 'typerighter'
 * Reload article page.
 * You will now see the box-out for typerighter features in the top right of the article.
 * Click "advanced", then "refresh".

Add the following text:

"Diane Abbott and Kier Starmer have been re-elected"

Click "Check whole document".  You should see "Diane Abbott" ticked with green underline.
You should not see "Kier Starmer" ticked.  This is because his first name is spelt "Keir"!

Correct this, and click "Check whole document" again.  Both names should now be ticked with green underline.

## Developing new typerighter rules.

If you wish to test new rules, you should visit the google doc (see [here](./02-google-sheet.md)) and edit appropriately
Once you have added a rule to the doc, you must visit the [local typerighter rules page](https://manager.typerighter.local.dev-gutools.co.uk/) 
and click the "refresh rules" button.

Commit message:

Update instructions for running Typerighter within Composer locally

docs/03-composer-integration.md, after:

# Integration with a local composer

You will need dev nginx and a local composer.

Follow the instructions in flexible-content/readme/03-running.md to get your local composer up.

It should be accessible at `https://composer.local.dev-gutools.co.uk/`.

Run a local typerighter service (see instructions for [running locally](./01-running-locally.md)).

Edit /.gu/flexible-composerbackend.properties and set
`typerighter.url=https://checker.typerighter.local.dev-gutools.co.uk`

## Running typerighter checker

"reStart" composer.

- Create an article and edit it
- Open the typerighter sidebar by clicking the button on the right
- Add the following text:

"Kier Starmer and Rishi Sunak debate live on TV"

- Click "Check document".
  - "Rishi Sunak" should have a green underline.
  - "Kier Starmer" should not have a green underline. This is because his first name is spelt "Keir"!

Correct this, and click "Check document" again. Both names should now have a green underline.

## Adding new typerighter rules

If you wish to test new rules, you can add and edit rules in the [typerighter rule manager](https://manager.typerighter.local.dev-gutools.co.uk/).
